Person I am reviewing: Syazana Rashid 

Part I
1. I think that it was a genuine effort, but the length was lacking. Her introduction was clear for the most part, but was lacking a hypothesis. The justification lacked references and clear language that focused the means of her research objectives. The research plan was partly finished, for it did not offer means of analysis  She did not have any references listed in the specified section.

2. The overarching objective is to invesitgate the ocean temperatures of coral diversity between edge and central zones in the Great Barrier Reef during the modern and Pleistocene epochs. A specified hypothesis was not provided. 

3. From what she explained to me in the context of her objective, it seemed novel and testable. I think that the hypothesis is scientifically/socially relevant due to great interest in the Great Barrier Reef. However, her explanation of the hypothesis was confusing and a bit hard to follow. It's clear that she needs to develop the hypothesis more to strengthen her proposal. 

4. Clearly defining a hypothesis is crucial to success in the paper. Building links between the objective and the hypothesis that are fully supported in the justification section is necessary to build a strong case for one's research. I would also be sure figure out the methods in which the data will be analyzed. 

5. Address why you're confining your research to the Pleistocene and modern epochs. In general, use more discete language to convey ideas in a clear way. I suggested that she consult the powerpoint explaining the project for examples and links. 

6. No, there were not any references cited. When compiling the list of citations, I would be sure to follow GSA formatting guidelines for both the references section and in-text citations.     

Part II-- Reviewed by Shayzana Rashid 
1. Yes. There were some questions about the use of benthic foraminiferal oxygen isotopes ratios-- I need to specifiy that it is linked to the increase of global temperatures. 

2. Yes. 

3. Yes. 

4. Somewhat. I felt that looking beyond 

5. Build a better link between benthic foraminiferal oxygen isotope ratios with increasing global temperatures as an effect of climate change in the introduction. 
-----------------------------------------------
Person I am Reviewing: Bryce Fenlon 

Part I
1. Yes.

2. Bryce aims to look at the evolution of Brachiopods tracking their paleocoordinates throughout all time periods. 

3. I do believe that the hypothesis is testable/feasible. However, I thought that it could be more coherently phrased and emphasized for its social relevance in the justification portion. In terms of novelty, I am unsure. Much of the labs and coursework have dealt with bivalves and brachiopods, so I am not sure if this perspective is providing a new angle due to the limited knowledge that I have about the subject. 

4. I felt that the introduction could have used more direct language that sitauted the reader to the topic, such as "My objective" or "I hypothesize." He also should reformat his citations into the preferred GSA format. 

5. I suggested that he consult the powerpoint explaining the project for examples and links. 

6. Yes, ample amount of background supported by multiple sources. 

Part II: Reviewed by Bryce Fenlon 
1. Yes. 

2. Yes. 

3. Yes. 

4. Yes. In general, he did a good job reviewing my paper. He left comments on that reminded me of things that I needed to improve on. He cuold have been more thorough in the review an elaborate on questions that he had for me in his feedback. 

5. I am going to expand on my justification section to better emphasize the importance of my research. I also need to include more references to strengthen this section, and format them in the specified GSA format. 

