Leema John
Geosci 541
2/22/16

“Global Biodiversity Scenarios for the Year 2100” by Osvaldo E. Sala, F. Stuart Chapin III, Juan J. Armesto (2000) 
Article Summary 
The article presented in Science’s Compass aims to map out possible changes in biodiversity for the year 2100. These scenarios are based on changes identified as “major drivers” which included: in atmospheric carbon dioxide, climate, nitrogen deposition, biotic exchange and land use. With projections set in the year 2100, the ranks of important drivers of change are identified, alongside biomes with respect to expected changes and major sources of uncertainties. The biomes are categorized as terrestrial or freshwater. Within the category of terrestrial, the biomes of arctic tundra, alpine tundra, boreal forest, grasslands, savannas, Mediterranean ecosystems, deserts, northern temperate forests, southern temperate forests and tropical forests were analyzed. The freshwater biomes included lakes and streams. 
In terms of results, the major key findings centered around the impact of the drivers on various biomes, especially the degree and magnitude of it. For terrestrial eco-systems, land-use change will have the largest effect, while biotic exchange will have a larger impact on freshwater ecosystems. Mediterranean climate and grassland ecosystems will experience the greatest proportional change in biodiversity of the influence that all drivers have in that area. Overall, the major drivers pose as large threats to preserving biodiversity, and serves as a push from several human-induced changes. 

Positive Feedback 
Overall, I thought that this article was informative, despite being broad in its presentation. I thought that the drivers were well chosen, and covered all aspects of the major changes of biodiversity. Specifically, I felt that biotic exchange was a really clever way of measuring biodiversity change that I had not initially thought of. Additionally, I appreciated how the review went about ranking the different drivers, which allowed for better understanding of their impacts in relation to one another. For example, the average high impact across all biomes is calculated to be land use, with climate change as a second most driver of biodiversity change. 

Constructive Feedback 
The one question that I had for this article is reflected in the data that it utilizes to address the many changes in biodiversity. Specifically, when modelling biodiversity change, key issues centered around driver-induced patterns, such as the warming climate and the pattern of biotic exchange as a reflection of human patterns of activity. These trends that are applied to biomes and ecosystems are cited from other literature, and are all compiled to address the various changes in biodiversity. However, I do find it problematic that these conclusions from different studies are used to draw even more conclusions in the review. These various studies utilize different designs and methods that were different from the methods used at hand. Thus, it makes me question the validity in applying previously discovered patterns as the basis for the new design of the experiment. 

Evaluation of Graphs and Figures 
	There are a total of four tables in this paper. Table 1 displays the expected changes for biodiversity in the year 2100 in the principal terrestrial biomes, as predicted by the five major drivers of biodiversity change. The numbers are used as a scale to compare the impacts of different drivers in each terrestrial biome, ranging from 1-5. In Table 2, the impact of large change in each driver on the biodiversity of each biome is shown. the calculated amount of change in each driver by the year 2100. It is interesting that all biomes have a high score of 5 for land use. 
	Additionally, table 2 looks at the expected changes in the drivers for the year 2100 for lakes and streams. The numbers are varied, and do not appear to show a pattern. Table 3 on the other hand shows the impact of large change in each driver on the biodiversity of major freshwater-ecosystem type. The same methods and assumptions are noted to be the same as in tables 1 and 2. \
The review also features a handful of figures that further the understanding of the concepts presented in the article. In figure 1, the relative effect of major drivers of changes on biodiversity is graphed in a bar graph. The method as to how each change was calculated is given in the description, allowing for a concise explanation for the data. The thin bars above the plotted bars represent the standard errors and thus the variability among biomes. Figure 2 shows the effect of each driver on biodiversity change for each terrestrial biome and freshwater ecosystem. There are a total of 12 bar graphs, each showing relative biodiversity change by each driver on all the biomes discussed in the article. 
Finally, figure 3 shows maps of three scenarios of the expected change in the biodiversity for the year 2100. All color-coded for the change in individual biomes that occur around the world, map A depicts no interactions among drivers of biodiversity change. Map B represents the maximum among of antagonistic interactions between the biomes, while Map C depicts synergistic interactions between the biomes. 

