Leema John
Geosci 541
Week 8 Writing 
3/10/16

“Determinants of Extinction in the Fossil Record” by Shanan E. Peters and Michael Foote (2002)
Summary 
	Published in the “Letters to Nature” section of Nature magazine in 2002, the article aims to explore how the observed fossil record of extinction would appear if the time series of true extinction rates were in fact smooth. By utilizing a compilation of exposed marine sedimentary rock, the use of Formation is used to look at the causes of mass extinctions in the highly variable record. In fact, the many features of the highly variable record of extinction rates within marine animals can be predicted on the basis of temporal variation in the amount of exposed rock. Thus, the first steps to the analysis involved a comparison of the global, stage-level records of apparent genus extinctions with the estimate of exposed marine rock. 
	Through various analytic measures, the data revealed that there was an agreement between observed and model-predicted de-trended rates of genus extinction. Peters and Foote postulated that this could be due to two possible reasons: 1) apparent volatility in extinction is largely spurious—extinction events may involve a greater loss of genera than expected on the basis of known gaps in the record and 2) a common cause affects both extinction and the amount of rock preserved and exposed at the Earth’s surface. The article concludes by noting that the analyses presented provides a measure of quantitative support for the hypothesis that a significant component of the observed variation of rates in genus extinction may be spurious. 
Positive Feedback 
	I thought that a strength to this article was the use of Formation in the marine formation data. By choosing Formation as the unit of sedimentary rock, there is an advantage due to its standardized definition of being lithologically distinct and mappable at a scale of 1: 24,000. Additionally, it is not erected on the basis of fossil content, clearing the data from any bias that may come up. 
	Moreover, I thought that the tests for statistical significance for the models added to the strength of the study. First, the null distributions of correlation coefficients were generated by randomizing the formation time series and then recalculating the correlation between model and observations. Second, the different methods of centering for the constant stage-lengths (zero-centred) and variable stage-lengths (not zero-centred) with respect to null distributions ultimately legitimized statistical significance and allowed for a fair comparison between the two models. Performing this offset allowed for a shared time-scale is used to calculate both model and observed extinction rates. 
Constructive Feedback 
	I thought that the authors could have done a better job of explaining the statistical test of stage i + 1 versus stage i – 1 versus stage i relationships. I was unfamiliar with the nature of this test, and was hoping for more clarity in its measures by its corresponding figure. A simple definition explaining the test and what stage i represents would be helpful in better understanding the parameters concerning  the importance of the offset effect. 
Graphs & Figures
	Figure one, shows the observed extinction rate lineage in millions of years and the number of marine formations in the combines data set. Graph A is a time series that plots geological time in millions of years vs. the number of formations and the observed extinction rate per lineage in millions of years. Graph B is a graphed plot of the change in the number of formations vs. the change in observed extinction rates per lineage in millions of years with an r value of 0.238. This plots the first differences from graph A. Graph C shows the change in observed extinction rate from various stages versus the stage of the amount of rock with an r value of -0.471. Specifically, it plots the change in number of formations vs. the change in observed extinction rate per lineage in millions of years. 
	Figure two shows the observed extinction rates alongside the predicted apparent extinction rates based on the calibrated time series of preservation rates using a combined compilation. Graph A shows the relationship between geological time and extinction rate per lineage in the observed and model. This shows declining extinction rates. Graph B shows the relationship between geological time and extinction rate per stage by the means of the observed and model. This shows constant extinction rates. Graph C plots the change in model extinction rate per lineage vs. the change in observed extinction rate per stage showing first differences from graph A with an r value of 0.798. Graph D plots the change in model extinction rate per stage vs. the change in observed extinction rate per stage showing first differences with graph B with an r value of 0.786. The correlations are significant, and show strong patterns of correlation amongst the data. 
	Table one shows the linear product-moment correlation coefficients. The table shows the formation compilation, extinction model utilized, stage lengths (based on timescale or assumed constant) and the different recovery rates of formation in regards to a set p-value that is measured for significance based on r correlation coefficients. It is noted that all correlations are significant at P < 0.0005 according to a formation randomization test. 
	Figure three shows the null distributions of linear product-moment correlation coefficients. This is generated by randomizing the combined formation time series. By graphing the linear correlation coefficient vs. the frequency, it is clear that the open distribution shows model with variable stage lengths and declining extinction rates. There are two distributions with slight overlay of one another—the shaded distribution shows the model with constant stage lengths and constant extinction rates while the 
