Leema John
Geoscience 541 
Write-Up: Week 3

“Niche Conservatism Above the Species Level” by Elizabeth A. Hadley, Paula A Spaeth and Cheng Li (2009) 
Article Summary 
The published article presented in PNAS argues for the idea of understanding ecological niches and niche conservatism above the species level. With a focus on the genus level and above, methods are employed to measure the range size of extant mammalian genera and families, ranked by range size, estimated change in range size and ranks during the periods of late Pleistocene and late Holocene. The findings reveal that range size above the species level (primarily genus and species) were relatively constant over time. Although range shifts and an extinction of species within clades occurred, continuity exists over the period. Thus, there is suggestion that levels above the species shape niches based on intrinsic life history traits, while the species level may be a reflection of environmental controls. Furthering support for looking above the species level, this article highlights its results to further argue the critical importance of maintaining the biodiversity of mammals at the genus level, while maintaining a sufficient pool of species with in the genera. 

Positive Feedback 
I appreciated the level of reasoning that was provided for justifying the course of methods employed in this article. Even the statement about the abstract concisely organized the various points in the study through language that was clear and direct. Each choice had a purpose, and was backed up with hard reasoning and evidence, all of which is necessary for a scientific paper. Additionally, the authors did a great job of incorporating environmental factors was shaping the parameters of their study, and voicing it a structured manner when presenting it to the audience. For example, the authors form their research questions around “the rapid rate of global climate change today” and list out the two principal questions that are at the focus of their research. This structure in shaping methodology is well articulated and evident in thought process in through the frame of presentation. 
Additionally, I felt that the figures and graphs were very well done in this article. Personally, I felt as if it was modelled after a textbook, with the aim of thoroughly explaining each image or table with a well-versed caption. For example, figure two was well organized by its arrangement of photos and clear labelling of captions. In fact, there was a preview to the captions that described what the photos were directing to, followed by descriptive explanations of processes. I felt that this was a distinguishing feature of the article, for it enabled a reader to grasp the content much more easily. 

Constructive Feedback 
Overall, the article could have been formatted in a more efficient way. Each section was labelled under the standard portions of a scientific paper—methods, results, discussion, etc. However, it would be helpful to have subheadings within each section in order to splice portions of the dense text. A more concise presentation would have allowed for a more pleasurable reading experience to the audience. 

Evaluation of Graphs and Figures 
	This article had a number of figures that were easy to follow, and further grounded the concepts presented. First, there was a data table that listed all of the North American mammalian genera used in the study. The data presents the genus, number of species within each genus, rang size of the LH period, rank of LH range, range size of LP, rank of LP range and average body size. The genera were easy to follow, as it was listed in alphabetical order. Credit was placed for the source of the derived species number within each genus in the caption, making it easy to reference the original information. 
Next, there were two graphs that charted relationships in the data in clear and effective ways. First, the genera were sorted by increasing LP rank (as the x-axis extended to the right) and the change in area from LP to LH using the log function (as the y-axis extended upwards). Color was also used to identify trends—blue lines indicated a decrease in LH for the genus range while red indicated a genus range with increased LH. This plot made it easy to see that most genera increased in range size for LH. Second, was a scatter plot that showed a positive correlation between LH range size and LP range size. With a dense amount of points along the top right corner of the graph, it is evident that the R value of 0.6246 is due to larger range sizes between the two periods. 
Last, there are two figures that utilize a map of the United States to geographically visualize distributions. Figure two consists of five maps that outlines examples of geographic range sizes for LP and LH. Each map outlines different ranges for different genera, which is clearly labelled on the map and specified in the caption. The second figure, figure four, maps out the differences in the number of species within the genus Canis due to LP extinction, and how that did not significantly influence changes in geographic rank between time intervals. Image A is Canis during LP and figure B is Canis during LH. 
