Leema John
Geoscience 541 
Writing Exercise: Week 4

“Cenozoic Latitudinal Response Curves: Individualistic Changes in the Latitudinal Distributions of Marine Bivalves and Gastropods” by Andrew A. Zaffos and Arnold I. Miller (2015) 
Article Summary 
The article presented in The Paleontological Society poses to uncover the latitudinal distributions of marine bivalves and gastropods in a poleward direction over the genus’s evolutionary trajectory. Using a Gaussian logistic regression model, latitudinal response curves are used to characterize epoch-to-epoch and stage-to-stage changes in the curves. This model is used to address the following key objectives: 1) If there is indeed a detectable pattern of latitudinal migration over the course of the Cenozoic period, 2) if latitudinal migration is driven by an expanded geographic range, or just shifted by the center of distribution, 3) the proportion of larger to smaller changes in latitude and if changes can be linked to specific geologic events, and 4) if there are variations in the rates of the changes and if they vary in magnitude when considered in successive stages. 
With the model at hand, a “hollow-curve pattern became apparent to a consistent degree. This resulted in the conclusion that the pace and magnitude of changes in the latitudinal distribution of marine mollusks were not controlled, and aggregated to time-period-specific conditions. The results favor an equatorward migration or no general trend, reflecting the tendency of genera to maintain their highest concentrations in the tropics, despite extended ranges over time. Ultimately, the overwhelming consistency of hollow curve distributions mark underlying conservatism of genera to be resistant to environmental and biological disturbances that characterize each interval. 

Positive Feedback 
Overall, I thought that this article was well presented and strong. Complicated ideas were broken down into points that were easy to follow and addressed the topics at hand, such as distinguishing key objectives of the study in the beginning as well as outlining the conclusions at the end. I also favored the sectioned solely focused on analyzing the produced model, and its evaluated accuracy. By addressing the past concerns of the GLR distribution, the author sets himself for success by illuminating light on how the assumption of symmetry does not significantly distort the results from GLR for preferred latitude in this study. This was a strong move in presentation by putting forward a common concern and dispelling its concern in the context of the analysis at hand. 

Constructive Feedback 
The issues that I have with this article is in regards to formatting and presentation, as it lacked efficiency in some areas. First, the ordering of the sections could have used some work—I think that is would have been more practical to present the “Model Accuracy” section right after the introduction, rather than after presenting the data. This is because the introduction presents the Gaussian model and discusses it to some degree; it would have been ideal to discuss the model directly after in order to address concerns. Additionally, it would have been nice to see labelled sub-points within each point to organize the material. There is a great deal of information that is presented, all of which is neatly organized into paragraphs; however, it would be strengthened by further organization through the labelling of sub-points. 
I also think that more graphs and figures could have been used to facilitate better understanding of the statistical data. In the results section, there is discussion of various significance levels and t-tests. By providing a graph to chart this data, it would have been easier for the reader to grasp the presented material. 

Evaluation of Graphs and Figures 
	This article features a table that compares the original mean of the first differences, the bootstrapped mean of its first differences and p-value at different time intervals. Overall, the table is easy to read and direct in what it aims to portray to the reader. The caption is well done, with a clear explanation of the relationships between the data—the original mean is always lower than the average bootstrapped mean for both preferred latitude and latitudinal tolerance. The caption reminds us that all intervals are statistically significant by stating the alpha-value of 0.05. 
