Leema John
Geosci 541 
28 March 2016 


“Decoupling of Taxonomic and Ecologic Severity of Phanerzoix Marine Mass Extinctions” by Mary L. Droser, David J. Bottjer, Peter M. Sheehan and George R. McGhee Jr (2000) 
Article Summary 
The article aims to compare ecological changes induced by taxonomic diversity losses as experienced by mass extinctions events among the marine biota. Specifically, the relative ecological degradation caused by the Late Ordovician and Late Devonian mass extinctions are compared. These two mass extinction events are of focus due to their similar taxonomic losses at the family level, alongside the fact that both occurred while marine assemblages were dominated primarily by Paleozoic evolutionary fauna. The ecological comparison is done through the method of expressing changes in the paleoecological system in terms of scales of change. These changes were categorized into four types, labelled as “first” through “fourth.” Changes in the first level indicated the greatest magnitude, and advent of a new ecosystem; changes in the second level happen within an established ecosystem; changes in the third level include community-scale shifts with an established ecological structure; and changes in the fourth level involve community-level changes pertaining to appearance and disappearance. 
The analyses show that despite similar taxonomic losses between the two mass extinctions, the Late Ordovician extinction resulted in only minimal permanent ecological damage while the Late Devonian extinction resulted in the complete restructuring of various aspects of the marine ecosystem. Ultimately, the article uncovers that they large-scale taxonomic and ecological significance of these extinctions are not mutually exclusive, suggesting that some taxa are ecologically more critical than others. 

Positive Feedback 
Overall, I thought that this article was well presented and strong. Complicated ideas were broken down into points that were easy to follow and addressed the topics at hand, such as distinguishing key objectives of the study in the beginning as well as outlining the conclusions at the end. 
I particularly appreciated the quantitative offer in analysis through the inclusion of the Seposki and Miller model. This allowed the study’s findings to remerge as significant through a different context. Learning about the offshore displacement of Paleozoic evolutionary fauna and modern evolutionary fauna as a reversal was key to uncovering the severity of ecological impact during both mass extinction events. This model provided an alternate method to shed light on the paleoenvironmenal patterns in relation to the ecological impact that a mass extinction event can have.  

Constructive Feedback 
My one point of criticism for this article is that the scales for paleoecological change are not backed in a quantitative manner to the reader. Although the levels are scaled and provide a method for ranking change, it is not expressed in a quantitative fashion that grounds conclusions through factual evidence. The authors acknowledge the difficulty in this task. One possible way that this could have been somewhat alleviated is to somehow model the states of change in a figure that captures their differences and magnitudes in a hierarchical way. 
Additionally, the article could have utilized a graph or another table that is comparative in nature. Since this paper is centered around the ecological differences after similar mass extinctions, a figure that is comparative of their differences could emphasize the main objectives of the paper. 

Evaluation of Graphs and Figures 
	This article features a table and a figure that contribute to the overall understanding of the findings. First, the table presents definitions of paleoecological levels alongside the characteristic signals of each level. The table is easy to read, and clearly denotes each level in relation to where it stands in ranking as well as the signals that mark it. This clarifies the various ecological markers that reside in an altered environment. Second, there is a figure showing the Paleozoic time-environment diagram of Seposki and Miller that relates environmental and temporal distributions among various time periods. Specifically, the Cambrian, Paleozoic and modern evolutionary faunas are displayed. The horizontal axis gives the environmental position along the bathymetric gradient (indicated by “deep” and “shallow”) while the vertical axis displays geologic time spanning from the Cambrian to Permian. This figure highlights the presence and interactions of various faunas in relation to the geologic time scale (and thus, mass extinctions). 
